::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
**[1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) +
[BACK](Easter5rogation.html) + [NEXT](Ascensionsundayafter.html)**

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

[](Ascensionsundayafter.html)\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Ascensiontide - Whitsuntide*

***\
The Ascension Day.***

***\
***\
[Missal Propers](Missal/AscensionDay.html)
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\
\
\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

GRANT, we beseech thee, Almighty God, that like as we do believe thy
only-begotten Son our Lord Jesus Christ to have ascended into the
heavens; so we may also in heart and mind thither ascend, and with him
continually dwell, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Ghost,
one God, world without end. Amen.

*¶ This Collect is to be said daily throughout the Octave.*

For the Epistle. Acts i. 1.

THE former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began
both to do and teach, until the day in which he was taken up, after that
he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom
he had chosen: to whom also he shewed himself alive after his passion by
many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of
the things pertaining to the kingdom of God: and, being assembled
together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from
Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye
have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be
baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence. When they therefore
were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this
time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is
not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put
in his own power. But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost
is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem,
and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the
earth. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was
taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they
looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by
them in white apparel; which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye
gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into
heaven, shall so came in like manner as ye have seen him go into
heaven.\

The Gospel. St. Luke xxiv. 49.

JESUS said, Behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry
ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high.
And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands,
and blessed them. And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was
parted from them, and carried up into heaven. And they worshipped him,
and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: and were continually in the
temple, praising and blessing God.

*¶ The same Collect, Epistle, and Gospel shall serve for every day
after, unto the NEXT*

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

Sunday, except upon the Feast of St. Philip and St. James.

The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

O GOD, the King of glory, who hast exalted thine only Son Jesus Christ
with great triumph unto thy kingdom in heaven; We beseech thee, leave us
not comfortless; but send to us thine Holy Ghost to comfort us, and
exalt us unto the same place whither our Saviour Christ is gone before,
who liveth and reigneth with thee and the same Holy Ghost, one God,
world without end. Amen.\

The Epistle. 1 St. Peter iv. 7.

THE end of all things is at hand: be ye therefore sober, and watch unto
prayer. And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves: for
charity shall cover the multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to
another without grudging. As every man hath received the gift, even so
minister the same one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace
of God. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God; if any
man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth: that God
in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise
and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.\

The Gospel. St. John xv. 26, and part of Chap. xvi.

WHEN the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father,
even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall
testify of me: and ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with
me from the beginning. These things have I spoken unto you, that ye
should not be offended. They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea,
the time cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God
service. And these things will they do unto you, because they have not
known the Father, nor me. But these things have I told you, that when
the time shall come, ye may remember that I told you of them.

 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Hymn Suggestions\
\
**[Hail thee, festival
day](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/102.html) - *Salve Festa
Dies* 102\
[See the conqueror mounts in
triumph](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/103-1.html) - *In
Babilone* 103\
[See the conqueror mounts in
triumph](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/103-2.html) - *Rex
gloriae* 103\
[Hail the day that sees him
rise](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/104-1.html) - *Ascension*
104\
[Hail the day that sees him
rise](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/104-2.html) - *Llanfair*
104\
[Look ye saints, the sight is
glorious](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/105.html) - *Coronae*
105\
[The head that once was crowned with
thorns](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/106.html) - *St. Magnus*
106\
[Draw nigh and take the body of the
Lord](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/202-1.html) - *Garden*
202\
[Draw nigh and take the body of the
Lord](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/202-2.html) - *Lammas*
202\
[Deck thyself, my soul, with
gladness](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/210.html) - *Schmuecke
dich* 210\
[Alleluia! sing to
Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/347-1.html) - *AIleluia*
347\
[Alleluia! sing to
Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/347.html) - *Hyfrydol*
347\
[All hail the power of Jesus
name](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/355.html) - *Coronation*
355\
[All hail the power of Jesus\'
name](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/355-2.html) - *Miles Lane*
355\
[Hail, thou once despised
Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/357.html) - *In Babilone*
357\
[Jesus shall reign where\'er the
sun](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/542.html) - *Duke Street*
542

 
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
