::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
  [1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) + [BACK](stthomas.html) +
[NEXT](purification.html)

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Holy Days*

***The Conversion of Saint Paul*. *\
\[January 25.\]\
***Click here for Missal Propers\
\
The Collect.

![3](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

O GOD, who, through the preaching of the blessed Apostle Saint Paul,
hast caused the light of the Gospel to shine throughout the world;
Grant, we beseech thee, that we, having his wonderful conversion in
remembrance, may show forth our thankfulness unto thee for the same, by
following the holy doctrine which he taught; through Jesus Christ our
Lord. Amen.\

For the Epistle. Acts ix. 1.

AND Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the
disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest, and desired of him
letters to Damascus to the synagogues, that if he found any of this way,
whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto
Jerusalem. And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly
there shined round about him a light from heaven: and he fell to the
earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest
thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus
whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to
do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the city, and it
shall be told thee what thou must do. And the men which journeyed with
him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no man. And Saul arose
from the earth; and when his eyes were opened, he saw no man: but they
led him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus. And he was three
days without sight, and neither did eat nor drink. And there was a
certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias; and to him said the Lord in
a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I am here, Lord. And the Lord
said unto him, Arise, and go into the street which is called Straight,
and enquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul, of Tarsus: for,
behold, he prayeth, and hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming
in, and putting his hand on him, that he might receive his sight. Then
Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how much evil
he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem: and here he hath authority from
the chief priests to bind all that call on thy name. But the Lord said
unto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name
before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel: for I will
shew him how great things he must suffer for my name\'s sake. And
Ananias went his way, and entered into the house; and putting his hands
on him said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee
in the way as thou camest, hath sent me, that thou mightest receive thy
sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost. And immediately there fell
from his eyes as it had been scales: and he received sight forthwith,
and arose, and was baptized. And when he had received meat, he was
strengthened. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples which were
at Damascus. And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues, that
he is the Son of God. But all that heard him were amazed, and said; Is
not this he that destroyed them which called on this name in Jerusalem,
and came hither for that intent, that he might bring them bound unto the
chief priests? But Saul increased the more in strength, and confounded
the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ.\

The Gospel. St. Matthew xix. 27.

PETER answered and said unto Jesus, Behold, we have forsaken all, and
followed thee; what shall we have therefore? And Jesus said unto them,
Verily I say unto you, That ye which have followed me, in the
regeneration when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory,
ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of
Israel. And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or
sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my
name\'s sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit
everlasting life. But many that are first shall be last; and the last
shall be first.

**Hymn Suggestions\
\
**[We sing the glorious
conquest](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/114.html) - *Munich*
114\
[The saints of
God!](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/128-1.html) - *Jervaulx
Abby* 128\
[The saints of
God!](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/128-2.html) - *Beati* 128\
[Joy and triumph
everlasting](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/129.html) -
*Bourgeois* 129\
[Who are these like stars
appearing](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/130.html)- *All
Saints* 130\
O Valiant hearts - *Birmingham* 531\
O Valiant hearts - *Valiant Hearts* 531\
[He who would valiant
be](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/563.html) - *St. Dunstan\'s*
563\
[Ye watchers and ye holy
ones](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/599.html) - *Vigiles et
sancti* 599
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
