::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
**[1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) +
[BACK](Eastermonday.html) + [NEXT](Easter1.html)**

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Eastertide*

***Tuesday in Easter Week.***

[\
](EasterMP.html)[](../readings/Easter.html#anchor2551497)\
Missal Propers
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\
\
\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

GRANT, we beseech thee, Almighty God, that we who celebrate with
reverence the Paschal feast, may be found worthy to attain to
everlasting joys; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.\

For the Epistle. Acts xiii. 26.

MEN and brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and whosoever among
you feareth God, to you is the word of this salvation sent. For they
that dwell at Jerusalem, and their rulers, because they knew him not,
nor yet the voices of the prophets which are read every sabbath day,
they have fulfilled them in condemning him. And though they found no
cause of death in him, yet desired they Pilate that he should be slain.
And when they had fulfilled all that was written of him, they took him
down from the tree, and laid him in a sepulchre. But God raised him from
the dead: and he was seen many days of them which came up with him from
Galilee to Jerusalem, who are his witnesses unto the people. And we
declare unto you glad tidings, how that the promise which was made unto
the fathers, God hath fulfilled the same unto us their children, in that
he hath raised up Jesus again; as it is also written in the second
psalm, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee. And as concerning
that he raised him up from the dead, now no more to return to
corruption, he said on this wise, I will give you the sure mercies of
David. Wherefore he saith also in another psalm, Thou shalt not suffer
thine Holy One to see corruption. For David, after he had served his own
generation by the will of God, fell on sleep, and was laid unto his
fathers, and saw corruption: but he, whom God raised again, saw no
corruption. Be it known unto you therefore, men and brethren, that
through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins: and by
him all that believe are justified from all things, from which ye could
not be justified by the law of Moses. Beware therefore, lest that come
upon you, which is spoken of in the prophets; Behold, ye despisers, and
wonder, and perish: for I work a work in your days, a work which ye
shall in no wise believe, though a man declare it unto you.\

The Gospel. St. Luke xxiv. 36.

JESUS himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be
unto you. But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they
had seen a spirit. And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why
do thoughts arise in your hearts? Behold my hands and my feet, that it
is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones,
as ye see me have. And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands
and his feet. And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he
said unto them, Have ye here any meat? And they gave him a piece of a
broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. And he took it, and did eat before
them. And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you,
while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were
written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms,
concerning me. Then opened he their understanding, that they might
understand the scriptures, and said unto them, Thus it is written, and
thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third
day: and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his
name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And ye are witnesses of
these things.

#  
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
