::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
**[1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) + [BACK](Easter.html) +
[NEXT](Eastertuesday.html)**

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Eastertide*

***Monday in Easter Week.***\
\
\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

 

O GOD, whose blessed Son did manifest himself to his disciples in the
breaking of bread; Open, we pray thee, the eyes of our faith, that we
may behold thee in all thy works; through the same thy Son Jesus Christ
our Lord. Amen.\

For the Epistle. Acts x. 34.

PETER opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive that God is no
respecter of persons: but in every nation he that feareth him, and
worketh righteousness, is accepted with him. The word which God sent
unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ: (he is
Lord of all:) that word, I say, ye know, which was published throughout
all Judaea, and began from Galilee, after the baptism which John
preached; how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and
with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were
oppressed of the devil; for God was with him. And we are witnesses of
all things which he did both in the land of the Jews, and in Jerusalem;
whom they slew and hanged on a tree: him God raised up the third day,
and shewed him openly; not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen
before of God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him after he rose
from the dead. And he commanded us to preach unto the people, and to
testify that it is he which was ordained of God to be the Judge of quick
and dead. To him give all the prophets witness, that through his name
whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins.\

The Gospel. St. Luke xxiv. 13.

BEHOLD, two of his disciples went that same day to a village called
Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. And they
talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to
pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself
drew near, and went with them. But their eyes were holden that they
should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of
communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and
are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said
unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the
things which are come to pass there in these days? And he said unto
them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth,
which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the
people: and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be
condemned to death, and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had
been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to-day
is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women
also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the
sepulchre; and when they found not his body, they came, saying, that
they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. And
certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it
even so as the women had said: but him they saw not. Then he said unto
them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have
spoken: ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter
into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he
expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.
And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made as
though he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying,
Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And
he went in to tarry with them. And it came to pass, as he sat at meat
with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them.
And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of
their sight. And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within
us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the
scriptures? And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem,
and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them,
saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. And they
told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in
breaking of bread.
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
