::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
**[1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) +
[BACK](goodfriday.html) + [NEXT](Easter.html)**

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Passiontide.*

***Easter Even.***

GRANT, O Lord, that as we are baptized into the death of thy blessed
Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ, so by continual mortifying our corrupt
affections we may be buried with him; and that through the grave, and
gate of death, we may pass to our joyful resurrection; for his merits,
who died, and was buried, and rose again for us, the same thy Son Jesus
Christ our Lord. Amen.\

The Epistle. 1 St. Peter iii. 17.

IT is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well doing,
than for evil doing. For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the
just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death
in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit: by which also he went and
preached unto the spirits in prison; which sometime were disobedient,
when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while
the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by
water. The like figure whereunto, even baptism, doth also now save us
(not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a
good conscience toward God,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ: who is
gone into heaven, and is on the right hand of God; angels and
authorities and powers being made subject unto him.\

The Gospel. St. Matthew xxvii. 57.

WHEN the even was come, there came a rich man of Arimathaea, named
Joseph, who also himself was Jesus\' disciple: he went to Pilate, and
begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be
delivered. And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean
linen cloth, and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in
the rock: and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre, and
departed. And there was Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary, sitting over
against the sepulchre. Now the NEXT

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

day, that followed the day of the preparation, the chief priests and
Pharisees came together unto Pilate, saying, Sir, we remember that that
deceiver said, while he was yet alive, After three days I will rise
again. Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third
day, lest his disciples come by night, and steal him away, and say unto
the people, He is risen from the dead: so the last error shall be worse
than the first. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch: go your way,
make it as sure as ye can. So they went, and made the sepulchre sure,
sealing the stone, and setting a watch.

 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Hymn Suggestions\
\
HOLY SATURDAY\
**[There is a green hill far
away](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/065-1.html) -
*Horsley* 65\
[There is a green hill far
away](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/065-2.html) -
*Meditation* 65\
[O sorrow
deep](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/083.html) - *O
traurigkeit* 83\
[Guide me, O thou great
Jehovah](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/434.html) - St. Oswald
434\
[Guide me, O thou great
Jehovah](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/434-a.html) - *Cwm
Rhondda* 434\
[Dear Lord and Father of
mankind](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/435-1.html) - *Hermann*
435\
[Dear Lord and Father of
mankind](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/435-2.html) - *Rest*
435\
[Dear Lord and Father of
mankind](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/435-a.html) - Repton
435\
[My faith looks up to
thee](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/449.html) - *Olivet* 449\
[As pants the hart for cooling
streams](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/450.html) - *Martyrdom*
450\
[A mighty fortress is our
God](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/551.html) - *Em Feste Burg*
551\
\
**At the Eucharist\
**[Jesus Christ is risen
today](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/085.html) - *Easter Hymn*
85\
[Welcome happy
morning](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/087.html) -
*Fortunatus* 87\
[Jesus lives](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/088.html) *- St.
Albinus* 88\
[At the Lamb\'s high
feast](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/089.html) - *Salzburg*
89\
[He is risen](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/090.html) -
*Neander* 90\
[Alleluia! The strife is
o\'er](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/091.html) - *Victory* 91\
[Alleluia Hearts and
voices](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/092.html) - *Lux eoi*
92\
[Thou hallowed chosen morn of
praise](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/093.html) - *Eisenach*
93\
[Come, ye faithful, raise the
strain](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/094-1.html) - *Gaudeamus
Pariter* 94\
[Come, ye faithful, raise the
strain](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/094-2.html) - *St.*
*Kevin* 94\
[Christ the Lord is ris\'n
today](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/095-1.html) - *Nassau*
95\
[Christ the Lord is ris\'n
today](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/095-2.html) - *Gwalchmai*
95\
[The day of
resurrection](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/096-1.html) -
*Ellecombe* 96\
[The day of
resurrection](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/096-2.html) - *All
Hallows* 96\
[Christians, to the Paschal
victim](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/097.html) - *Victimae
Paschali* 97\
[Alleluia! O sons and
daughters](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/099.html) - *0 Filii
Ft Filiae* 99
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
