::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
**[1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) +
[BACK](christmas2.html) + [NEXT](epiphany1.html)**\
\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for the Epiphany Season.*

***The Epiphany, or the\
Manifestation of Christ to the Gentiles. \[January 6.\]***

***[Live Sunday
Masses](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/stream.html)\
***

[](../readings/Christmas2.html#anchor3034234)\
[Missal Propers](Missal/Epiphany.html)
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\
 \
\
The Collect.

![erew](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

O GOD, who by the leading of a star didst manifest thy only-begotten Son
to the Gentiles; Mercifully grant that we, who know thee now by faith,
may after this life have the fruition of thy glorious Godhead; through
the same thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

*¶ This Collect is to be said daily throughout the Octave*

The Epistle. Ephesians iii. 1.

FOR this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles, if
ye have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God, which is given me
to you-ward: how that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery;
(as I wrote afore in few words, whereby, when ye read, ye may understand
my knowledge in the mystery of Christ) which in other ages was not made
known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles
and prophets by the Spirit; that the Gentiles should be fellow-heirs,
and of the same body, and partakers of his promise in Christ by the
gospel: whereof I was made a minister, according to the gift of the
grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power. Unto
me, who am less than the least of all saints, is this grace given, that
I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ;
and to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which
from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all
things by Jesus Christ: to the intent that now unto the principalities
and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold
wisdom of God, according to the eternal purpose which he purposed in
Christ Jesus our Lord: in whom we have boldness and access with
confidence by the faith of him.\

The Gospel. St. Matthew ii. 1.

WHEN Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea, in the days of Herod the
king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying,
Where is he that is born King of the Jews? for we have seen his star in
the east, and are come to worship him. When Herod the king had heard
these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he
had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together,
he demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him,
In Bethlehem of Judaea: for thus it is written by the prophet, And thou
Bethlehem, in the land of Juda, art not the least among the princes of
Juda: for out of thee shall come a Governor, that shall rule my people
Israel. Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, enquired of
them diligently what time the star appeared. And he sent them to
Bethlehem, and said, Go and search diligently for the young child; and
when ye have found him, bring me word again, that I may come and worship
him also. When they had heard the king, they departed; and, lo, the
star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and
stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they
rejoiced with exceeding great joy. And when they were come into the
house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down, and
worshipped him: and when they had opened their treasures, they presented
unto him gifts; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh. And being warned of
God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into
their own country another way.

*¶ The same Epistle and Gospel shall serve unto the next Sunday.*

 

**Hymn Suggestions**

\
[Brightest and best of the
stars](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Epiphany/046-1.html) -
*Morning Star* 46\
[What star is this, with beams so
bright](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Epiphany/047.html)*-
Puer Nobis* 47\
[Earth has many a noble
city](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Epiphany/048.html)*-
Stuttgart* 48\
[We three kings of Orient
are](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Epiphany/051.html) - *Three
Kings of Orient* 51\
[As with gladness men of
old](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Epiphany/052.html) - *Dix*
52\
[Songs of thankfulness and
praise](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Epiphany/053.html) -
*Salzburg* 53\
[Praise we the Lord this
day](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/118.html) - *St. George*
118\
[Christ, whose glory fills the
sky](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/153.html) - *Ratisbon*
153*\
*[How bright appears the morning
star](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/329.html) - *Frankfort*
329\
[Christ is made the sure
foundation](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/384.html) - *Regent
square* 384\
[Christ is made the sure
foundation](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/780.html) -
*Westminster Abbey* 780\
[God himself is with
us](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/477.html) - *Tysk* 477\
[Jesus shall reign where\'er the
sun](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/542.html) - *Duke Street*
542\
[Hail to the Lord\'s
Anointed](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/545.html) - *Woodbird*
545\
[Hail to the Lord\'s
Anointed](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/545-2.html) - *Zoan*
545
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\

 
:::
:::
