::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
 [1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) +
[BACK](maundythursday.html) + [NEXT](eastereven.html)

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

\+ [Mass
Videos](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/Sacraments/Sermons.html)\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Passiontide.*

***Good Friday.***

\
\
The Collects.

ALMIGHTY God, we beseech thee graciously to behold this thy family, for
which our Lord Jesus Christ was contented to be betrayed, and given up
into the hands of wicked men, and to suffer death upon the cross; who
now liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Ghost ever, one God,
world without end. Amen.\
\
ALMIGHTY and everlasting God, by whose Spirit the whole body of the
Church is governed and sanctified; Receive our supplications and
prayers, which we offer before thee for all estates of men in thy holy
Church, that every member of the same, in his vocation and ministry, may
truly and godly serve thee; through our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
Amen.\
\
MERCIFUL God, who hast made all men, and hatest nothing that thou hast
made, nor desirest the death of a sinner, but rather that he should be
converted and live; Have mercy upon all who know thee not as thou art
revealed in the Gospel of thy Son. Take from them all ignorance,
hardness of heart, and contempt of thy Word; and so fetch them home,
blessed Lord, to thy fold, that they may be made one flock under one
shepherd, Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and
the Holy Spirit, one God, world without end. Amen.\

The Epistle. Hebrews x. 1.

THE law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image
of the things, can never with those sacrifices, which they offered year
by year continually, make the comers thereunto perfect. For then would
they not have ceased to be offered? because that the worshippers once
purged should have had no more conscience of sins. But in those
sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year. For it
is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away
sins. Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and
offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me: in
burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no pleasure. Then
said I, Lo, I come (in the volume of the book it is written of me,) to
do thy will, O God. Above when he said, Sacrifice and offering and
burnt-offerings and offering for sin thou wouldest not, neither hadst
pleasure therein; which are offered by the law; then said he, Lo, I come
to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish
the second. By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of
the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest standeth daily
ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never
take away sins: but this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for
sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God; from henceforth
expecting till his enemies be made his footstool. For by one offering he
hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified. Whereof the Holy Ghost
also is a witness to us: for after that he had said before, This is the
covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith the Lord, I
will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds will I write
them; then saith he, And their sins and iniquities will I remember no
more. Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for
sin. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by
the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated
for us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh; and having an high
priest over the house of God; let us draw near with a true heart in full
assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience,
and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the profession
of our faith without wavering; (for he is faithful that promised;) and
let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works: not
forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some
is; but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day
approaching.\

The Gospel. St. John xix. 1.

PILATE therefore took Jesus, and scourged him. And the soldiers platted
a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple
robe, and said, Hail, King of the Jews! and they smote him with their
hands. Pilate therefore went forth again, and saith unto them, Behold, I
bring him forth to you, that ye may know that I find no fault in him.
Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe.
And Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man! When the chief priests
therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him,
crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him: for I
find no fault in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our
law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God. When Pilate
therefore heard that saying, he was the more afraid; and went again into
the judgment hall, and saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave
him no answer. Then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me?
knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to
release thee? Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all against
me, except it were given thee from above: therefore he that delivered me
unto thee hath the greater sin. And from thenceforth Pilate sought to
release him: but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this man go,
thou art not Caesar\'s friend: whosoever maketh himself a king, speaketh
against Caesar. When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought
Jesus forth, and sat down in the judgment-seat in a place that is called
the Pavement, but in the Hebrew, Gabbatha. And it was the preparation of
the passover, and about the sixth hour: and he saith unto the Jews,
Behold your King ! But they cried out, Away with him, away with him,
crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The
chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. Then delivered he
him therefore unto them to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led
him away. And he bearing his cross went forth into a place called the
place of a skull, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha: where they
crucified him, and two other with him, on either side one, and Jesus in
the midst. And Pilate wrote a title, and put it on the cross. And the
writing was, JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWS. This title then
read many of the Jews: for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh
to the city; and it was written in Hebrew, and Greek, and Latin. Then
said the chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not, The King of the
Jews; but that he said, I am King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I
have written I have written. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified
Jesus, took his garments, and made four parts, to every soldier a part;
and also his coat: now the coat was without seam, woven from the top
throughout. They said therefore among themselves, Let us not rend it,
but cast lots for it, whose it shall be: that the scripture might be
fulfilled, which saith, They parted my raiment among them, and for my
vesture they did cast lots. These things therefore the soldiers did. Now
there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother\'s sister,
Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw
his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, he saith unto
his mother, Woman, behold thy son ! Then saith he to the disciple,
Behold thy mother! And from that hour that disciple took her unto his
own home. After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now
accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst.
Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar: and they filled a spunge
with vinegar, and put it upon hyssop, and put it to his mouth. When
Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished: and
he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost. The Jews therefore, because it
was the preparation, that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on
the sabbath day, (for that sabbath day was an high day,) besought Pilate
that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. Then
came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other
which was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus, and saw that
he was dead already, they brake not his legs: but one of the soldiers
with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and
water. And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true: and he
knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe. For these things were
done, that the scripture should be fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be
broken. And again another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom
they pierced.

######  

**Hymn Suggestions**\
\
\
[The royal banners forward
go](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/063-1.html)*(procession)* -
*Vexilla Regis* 63\
[There is a green hill far
away](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/065-1.html) -
*Horsley* 65\
[There is a green hill far
away](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/065-2.html) -
*Meditation* 65\
[Sing, my tongue the glorious
battle](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/066.html)*(office
hymn)* - *Pange Lingua* 66\
[Go to dark
Gethsemane](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/070.html) -
*Petra* 70\
[Ah, holy Jesus, how hast thou
offended](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/071-1.html) -
*Herzliebster Jesu* 71\
[O sacred head, sore
wounded](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/075.html) -
*Passion Chorale* 75\
[At the cross her vigil
keeping](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/076-1.html) -
*Mainz* 76\
[At the cross her vigil
keeping](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/076-2.html) -
*Stabat Mater* 76\
[Were you there when they crucified my
Lord](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/080.html) -
*Were You There* 80\
[Jesus in thy dying
woes](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/082-1.html) -
*Swedish litany* 82\
[Jesus in thy dying
woes](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/082-2.html) -
*Ton-mân* 82\
[When I survey the wondrous
cross](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/337.html) - *Rockingham*
337\
[We sing the praise of him who
died](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/340.html) - *Breslau* 340\
[O love, how deep, how broad, how
high](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/344.html) - *Deus Tuorum
Milirum* 344\
[Lord Christ, when first thou
cam\'st](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/522.html) - *Bohemian
brethren* 522
:::

::: {#footer}
::: {align="center"}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}
:::
:::
:::
