::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
[1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) +
[BACK](wednesdaybfreaster.html) + [NEXT](goodfriday.html)

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Passiontide.*

***Thursday before Easter,\
commonly called Maundy Thursday.***

[](../readings/HolyWeek.html#anchor3151592)\
Missal Propers
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\
\
[Live Sunday Masses](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/stream.html)

\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

ALMIGHTY Father, whose dear Son, on the night before he suffered, did
institute the Sacrament of his Body and Blood; Mercifully grant that we
may thankfully receive the same in remembrance of him, who in these holy
mysteries giveth us a pledge of life eternal; the same thy Son Jesus
Christ our Lord, who now liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy
Spirit ever, one God, world without end. Amen.\

The Epistle. 1 Corinthians xi. 23.

I HAVE received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, That
the Lord Jesus the same night in which he was betrayed took bread: and
when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said, Take, eat: this is my
body, which is broken for you: this do in remembrance of me. After the
same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup
is the new testament in my blood: this do ye, as oft as ye drink it, in
remembrance of me. For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this
cup, ye do shew the Lord\'s death till he come.\

The Gospel. St. Luke xxiii. 1.

THE whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate . And they
began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow perverting the nation,
and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is
Christ a King. And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the
Jews? And he answered him and said, Thou sayest it. Then said Pilate to
the chief priests and to the people, I find no fault in this man. And
they were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching
throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place. When Pilate
heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean. And as soon
as he knew that he belonged unto Herod\'s jurisdiction, he sent him to
Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time. And when Herod
saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he was desirous to see him of a
long season, because he had heard many things of him; and he hoped to
have seen some miracle done by him. Then he questioned with him in many
words; but he answered him nothing. And the chief priests and scribes
stood and vehemently accused him. And Herod with his men of war set him
at nought, and mocked him, and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent
him again to Pilate. And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends
together: for before they were at enmity between themselves. And Pilate,
when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the
people, said unto them, Ye have brought this man unto me, as one that
perverteth the people: and, behold, I, having examined him before you,
have found no fault in this man touching those things whereof ye accuse
him: no, nor yet Herod: for I sent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy
of death is done unto him. I will therefore chastise him, and release
him. (For of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast.) And
they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and release unto
us Barabbas: (who for a certain sedition made in the city, and for
murder, was cast into prison.) Pilate therefore, willing to release
Jesus, spake again to them. But they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify
him. And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath he done?
I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him,
and let him go. And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that
he might be crucified. And the voices of them and of the chief priests
prevailed. And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required.
And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder was cast into
prison, whom they had desired; but he delivered Jesus to their will. And
as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a Cyrenian, coming
out of the country, and on him they laid the cross, that he might bear
it after Jesus. And there followed him a great company of people, and of
women, which also bewailed and lamented him. But Jesus turning unto them
said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves,
and for your children. For, behold, the days are coming, in the which
they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare,
and the paps which never gave suck. Then shall they begin to say to the
mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us. For if they do these
things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry? And there were
also two other, malefactors, led with him to be put to death. And when
they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they
crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other
on the left. Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not
what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots. And the people
stood beholding. And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He
saved others; let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God.
And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, and offering him
vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. And
a superscription also was written over him, in letters of Greek, and
Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. And one of the
malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ,
save thyself and us. But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost
not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? And we
indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man
hath done nothing amiss. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when
thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto
thee, To-day shalt thou be with me in paradise. And it was about the
sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth
hour. And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in
the midst. And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father,
into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the
ghost. Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God,
saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. And all the people that came
together to that sight, beholding the things which were done, smote
their breasts, and returned. And all his acquaintance, and the women
that followed him from Galilee, stood afar off, beholding these things.

*¶ Or else this that followeth.*

The Gospel. St. John xiii. 1.

NOW before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was
come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having
loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. And
supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas
Iscariot, Simon\'s son, to betray him; Jesus knowing that the Father had
given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God, and went
to God; he riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments; and took a
towel, and girded himself. After that he poureth water into a bason, and
began to wash the disciples\' feet, and to wipe them with the towel
wherewith he was girded. Then cometh he to Simon Peter: and Peter saith
unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? Jesus answered and said unto
him, What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter.
Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him,
If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. Simon Peter saith unto
him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus saith
to him, He that is washed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is
clean every whit: and ye are clean, but not all. For he knew who should
betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not all clean. So after he had
washed their feet, and had taken his garments, and was set down again,
he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? Ye call me Master
and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am. If I then, your Lord and Master,
have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one another\'s feet. For I
have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you.

 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Hymn Suggestions**\
\
[Drop, drop, slow
tears](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/069.html) -
*Song* 46 69\
[And now, O Father, mindful of the
love](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/189.html) - *Unde* et
*memores* 189\
[Thou. who at thy first
Eucharist](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/191.html) -
*Sacramentum Unitas* 191\
[Sion, praise thy Saviour
singing](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/193-1.html) - *Lauda
Sion* 193\
[Very bread, good
shepherd](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/194-1.html) - *Bone
pastor* 194\
[Sion, praise thy Saviour
singing](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/193-2.html) - *Weman*
193\
[Very bread, good
shepherd](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/194-2.html) - *Unitas
fratrum* 194\
[Father, we thank thee who hast
planted](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/195.html) - *Render A
Dieu* 195\
[Now, my tongue, the mystery
telling](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/199-200.html)
*(Procession) *Pange Lingua (Mode III)* 199\
*and\
Therefore we, before him bending *(at the altar of Repose)* - *Tantum
ergo* 200\
[Now, my tongue, the mystery
telling](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/199-2.html) - *St.
Thomas* 199\
[Draw nigh and take the body of the
Lord](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/202-1.html) - *Garden*
202\
[Draw nigh and take the body of the
Lord](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/202-2.html) - *Lammas* 202
:::

::: {#footer}
::: {align="center"}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}
:::
:::
:::
