::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
 [1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) + [BACK](palmsunday.html) +
[NEXT](tuesdaybfreaster.html)

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Passiontide.*

***Monday before Easter.***\
[](../readings/HolyWeek.html#anchor3148954)\
[Missal Propers](Missal/HolyWeekMonday.html)
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\

[Live Sunday
Masses](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/stream.html)\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

ALMIGHTY God, whose most dear Son went not up to joy but first he
suffered pain, and entered not into glory before he was crucified;
Mercifully grant that we, walking in the way of the cross, may find it
none other than the way of life and peace; through the same thy Son
Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.\

For the Epistle. Isaiah lxiii. 1.

WHO is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah? this
that is glorious in his apparel, travelling in the greatness of his
strength? I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save. Wherefore art
thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that treadeth in
the winefat? I have trodden the winepress alone; and of the people there
was none with me: for I will tread them in mine anger, and trample them
in my fury; and their blood shall be sprinkled upon my garments, and I
will stain all my raiment. For the day of vengeance is in mine heart,
and the year of my redeemed is come. And I looked, and there was none to
help; and I wondered that there was none to uphold: therefore mine own
arm brought salvation unto me; and my fury, it upheld me. And I will
tread down the people in mine anger, and make them drunk in my fury, and
I will bring down their strength to the earth. I will mention the
lovingkindnesses of the LORD, and the praises of the LORD, according to
all that the LORD hath bestowed on us, and the great goodness toward the
house of Israel, which he hath bestowed on them according to his
mercies, and according to the multitude of his lovingkindnesses. For he
said, Surely they are my people, children that will not lie: so he was
their Saviour. In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel
of his presence saved them: in his love and in his pity he redeemed
them; and he bare them, and carried them all the days of old. But they
rebelled, and vexed his holy Spirit; therefore he was turned to be their
enemy, and he fought against them. Then he remembered the days of old,
Moses, and his people, saying, Where is he that brought them up out of
the sea with the shepherd of his flock? where is he that put his holy
Spirit within him? that led them by the right hand of Moses with his
glorious arm, dividing the water before them, to make himself an
everlasting name? that led them through the deep, as an horse in the
wilderness, that they should not stumble? As a beast goeth down into the
valley, the Spirit of the LORD caused him to rest: so didst thou lead
thy people, to make thyself a glorious name. Look down from heaven, and
behold from the habitation of thy holiness and of thy glory: where is
thy zeal and thy strength, the sounding of thy bowels and of thy mercies
toward me? are they restrained? Doubtless thou art our father, though
Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledge us not: thou, O LORD,
art our father, our redeemer; thy name is from everlasting. O LORD, why
hast thou made us to err from thy ways, and hardened our heart from thy
fear? Return for thy servants\' sake, the tribes of thine inheritance.
The people of thy holiness have possessed it but a little while: our
adversaries have trodden down thy sanctuary. We are thine: thou never
barest rule over them; they were not called by thy name.\

The Gospel. St. Mark xiv. 1.

AFTER two days was the feast of the passover, and of unleavened bread:
and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by
craft, and put him to death. But they said, Not on the feast day, lest
there be an uproar of the people. And being in Bethany in the house of
Simon the leper, as he sat at meat, there came a woman having an
alabaster box of ointment of spikenard very precious; and she brake the
box, and poured it on his head. And there were some that had indignation
within themselves, and said, Why was this waste of the ointment made?
for it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence, and have
been given to the poor. And they murmured against her. And Jesus said,
Let her alone; why trouble ye her? she hath wrought a good work on me.
For ye have the poor with you always, and whensoever ye will ye may do
them good: but me ye have not always. She hath done what she could: she
is come aforehand to anoint my body to the burying. Verily I say unto
you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole
world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of
her. And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the chief priests,
to betray him unto them. And when they heard it, they were glad, and
promised to give him money. And he sought how he might conveniently
betray him. And the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the
passover, his disciples said unto him, Where wilt thou that we go arid
prepare that thou mayest eat the passover? And he sendeth forth two of
his disciples, and saith unto them, Go ye into the city, and there shall
meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water: follow him. And wheresoever
he shall go in, say ye to the goodman of the house, The Master saith,
Where is the guest-chamber, where I shall eat the passover with my
disciples? And he will shew you a large upper room furnished and
prepared: there make ready for us. And his disciples went forth, and
came into the city, and found as he had said unto them: and they made
ready the passover. And in the evening he cometh with the twelve. And as
they sat and did eat, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, One of you
which eateth with me shall betray me. And they began to be sorrowful,
and to say unto him one by one, Is it I? and another said, Is it I? And
he answered and said unto them, It is one of the twelve, that dippeth
with me in the dish. The Son of man indeed goeth, as it is written of
him: but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! good were
it for that man if he had never been born. And as they did eat, Jesus
took bread, and blessed, and brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take,
eat: this is my body. And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks,
he gave it to them: and they all drank of it. And he said unto them,
This is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many. Verily I
say unto you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the vine, until that
day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God. And when they had sung an
hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives. And Jesus saith unto them,
All ye shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, I
will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. But after
that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee. But Peter said unto
him, Although all shall be offended, yet will not I. And Jesus saith
unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day, even in this night,
before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. But he spake the
more vehemently, If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee in any
wise. Likewise also said they all. And they came to a place which was
named Gethsemane: and he saith to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I
shall pray. And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began
to be sore amazed, and to be very heavy; and saith unto them, My soul is
exceeding sorrowful unto death: tarry ye here, and watch. And he went
forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were
possible, the hour might pass from him. And he said. Abba, Father, all
things are possible unto thee; take away this cup from me: nevertheless
not what I will, but what thou wilt. And he cometh, and findeth them
sleeping, and saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? couldest not thou
watch one hour? Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The
spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak. And again he went away,
and prayed, and spake the same words. And when he returned, he found
them asleep again, (for their eyes were heavy,) neither wist they what
to answer him. And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them, Sleep
on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the
Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise up, let us go;
lo, he that betrayeth me is at hand. And immediately, while he yet
spake, cometh Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a great multitude
with swords and staves, from the chief priests and the scribes and the
elders. And he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying,
Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he; take him, and lead him away
safely. And as soon as he was come, he goeth straightway to him, and
saith, Master, master; and kissed him. And they laid their hands on him,
and took him. And one of them that stood by drew a sword, and smote a
servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. And Jesus answered and
said unto them, Are ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and
with staves, to take me? I was daily with you in the temple teaching,
and ye took me not: but the scriptures must be fulfilled. And they all
forsook him, and fled. And there followed him a certain young man,
having a linen cloth cast about his naked body; and the young men laid
hold on him: and he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked. And
they led Jesus away to the high priest: and with him were assembled all
the chief priests and the elders and the scribes. And Peter followed him
afar off, even into the palace of the high priest: and he sat with the
servants, and warmed himself at the fire. And the chief priests and all
the council sought for witness against Jesus to put him to death; and
found none. For many bare false witness against him, but their witness
agreed not together. And there arose certain, and bare false witness
against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that
is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made
without hands. But neither so did their witness agree together. And the
high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, saying, Answerest
thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee? But he held
his peace, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, and
said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus
said, I am: and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of
power, and coming in the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest rent his
clothes, and saith, What need we any further witnesses? ye have heard
the blasphemy: what think ye? And they all condemned him to be guilty of
death. And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to
buffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy: and the servants did strike
him with the palms of their hands. And as Peter was beneath in the
palace, there cometh one of the maids of the high priest: and when she
saw Peter warming himself, she looked upon him, and said, And thou also
wast with Jesus of Nazareth. But he denied, saying, I know not, neither
understand I what thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and the
cock crew. And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stood
by, This is one of them. And he denied it again. And a little after,
they that stood by said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for
thou art a Galilaean, and thy speech agreeth thereto. But he began to
curse and to swear, saying, I know not this man of whom ye speak. And
the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the word that
Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me
thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept.
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
