::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
 [1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) +
[BACK](passionsunday.html) + [NEXT](mondaybfreaster.html)
[](mondaybfreaster.html)

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

\+ [Mass
Videos](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/Sacraments/MassStream.html)\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Passiontide.*

***The Sunday NEXT***

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

before Easter,\
commonly called Palm Sunday.

***[Live Sunday
Masses](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/stream.html)\
***

[](../readings/HolyWeek.html)\
[Missal Propers](Missal/PalmSunday.html)
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\
\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

ALMIGHTY and everlasting God, who, of thy tender love towards mankind,
hast sent thy Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ, to take upon him our flesh,
and to suffer death upon the cross, that all mankind should follow the
example of his great humility; Mercifully grant, that we may both follow
the example of his patience, and also be made partakers of his
resurrection; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

\
¶ This Collect is to be said every day, after the Collect appointed for
the day, until Good Friday.

The Epistle. Philippians ii. 5.

LET this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus: who, being in
the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God: but made
himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and
was made in the likeness of men: and being found in fashion as a man, he
humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the
cross. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name
which is above every name: that at the name of Jesus every knee should
bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the
earth; and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord,
to the glory of God the Father.\

The Gospel. St. Matthew xxvii. 1.\
[Click here for a \"participatory\"
Passion](http://www.episcopalnet.org/TRACTS/Passion.html)

WHEN the morning was come, all the chief priests and elders of the
people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death: and when they had
bound him, they led him away, and delivered him to Pontius Pilate the
governor. Then Judas, which had betrayed him, when he saw that he was
condemned, repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of
silver to the chief priests and elders, saying, I have sinned in that I
have betrayed the innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? see
thou to that. And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, and
departed, and went and hanged himself. And the chief priests took the
silver pieces, and said, It is not lawful for to put them into the
treasury, because it is the price of blood. And they took counsel, and
bought with them the potter\'s field, to bury strangers in. Wherefore
that field was called, The field of blood, unto this day. Then was
fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying, And they
took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was valued, whom
they of the children of Israel did value; and gave them for the
potter\'s field, as the Lord appointed me. And Jesus stood before the
governor: and the governor asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the
Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest. And when he was accused of
the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. Then said Pilate unto
him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against thee? And he
answered him to never a word; insomuch that the governor marvelled
greatly. Now at that feast the governor was wont to release unto the
people a prisoner, whom they would. And they had then a notable
prisoner, called Barabbas. Therefore when they were gathered together,
Pilate said unto them, Whom will ye that I release unto you? Barabbas,
or Jesus which is called Christ? For he knew that for envy they had
delivered him. When he was set down on the judgment-seat, his wife sent
unto him, saying, Have thou nothing to do with that just man: for I have
suffered many things this day in a dream because of him. But the chief
priests and elders persuaded the multitude that they should ask
Barabbas, and destroy Jesus. The governor answered and said unto them,
Whether of the twain will ye that I release unto you? They said,
Barabbas. Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus which
is called Christ? They all say unto him, Let him be crucified. And the
governor said, Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out the more,
saying, Let him be crucified. When Pilate saw that he could prevail
nothing, but that rather a tumult was made, he took water, and washed
his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of
this just person: see ye to it. Then answered all the people, and said,
His blood be on us, and on our children. Then released he Barabbas unto
them: and when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified.
Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall, and
gathered unto him the whole band of soldiers. And they stripped him, and
put on him a scarlet robe. And when they had platted a crown of thorns,
they put it upon his head, and a reed in his right hand: and they bowed
the knee before him, and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews! And
they spit upon him, and took the reed, and smote him on the head. And
after that they had mocked him, they took the robe off from him, and put
his own raiment on him, and led him away to crucify him. And as they
came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name: him they compelled
to bear his cross. And when they were come unto a place called Golgotha,
that is to say, a place of a skull, they gave him vinegar to drink
mingled with gall: and when he had tasted thereof, he would not drink.
And they crucified him, and parted his garments, casting lots: that it
might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, They parted my
garments among them, and upon my vesture did they cast lots. And sitting
down they watched him there; and set up over his head his accusation
written, THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS. Then were there two thieves
crucified with him, one on the right hand, and another on the left. And
they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads, and saying, Thou
that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, save thyself.
If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. Likewise also the
chief priests mocking him, with the scribes and elders, said, He saved
others; himself he cannot save. If he be the King of Israel, let him now
come down from the cross, and we will believe him. He trusted in God;
let him deliver him now, if he will have him: for he said, I am the Son
of God. The thieves also, which were crucified with him, cast the same
in his teeth. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the
land unto the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a
loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is to say, My God,
my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Some of them that stood there, when
they heard that, said, This man calleth for Elias. And straightway one
of them ran, and took a spunge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it
on a reed, and gave him to drink. The rest said, Let be, let us see
whether Elias will come to save him. Jesus, when he had cried again with
a loud voice, yielded up the ghost. And, behold, the veil of the temple
was rent in twain from the top to the bottom; and the earth did quake,
and the rocks rent; and the graves were opened; and many bodies of the
saints which slept arose, and came out of the graves after his
resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many. Now
when the centurion, and they that were with him, watching Jesus, saw the
earthquake, and those things that were done, they feared greatly,
saying, Truly this was the Son of God.

 

 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Hymn Suggestions**\
\
\
[All glory, laud and
honor](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/062.html)
(procession) - *St. Theodulph* 62\
[The royal banners forward
go](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/063-1.html)
*(office hymn)* - *Vexilla Regis* 63\
[The royal banners forward
go](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/063-2.html) -
*Parker* 63\
[Ride on! Ride on in
majesty](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/064-2.html) -
*Winchester new* 64\
[Ride on! Ride on in
majesty](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/064-3.html)-
*St Drostane 64*\
[There is a green hill far
away](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/065-1.html) -
*Horsley* 65\
[There is a green hill far
away](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/065-2.html) -
*Meditation* 65\
[Alone thou goest forth, O
Lord](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/068.html) -
*Bangor* 68\
[Ah, holy Jesus, how hast thou
offended](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/071-1.html) -
*Herzlibster Jesu* 71\
[Ah, holy Jesus, how hast thou
offended](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/071-2.html) -
*Ecce jam noctis* 71\
[O sacred head, sore
wounded](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Passiontide/075.html) -
*Passion Chorale* 75\
[Draw nigh and take the Body of the
Lord](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/202-1.html) - *Garden*
202\
[Draw nigh and take the Body of the
Lord](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/202-2.html) - *Lammas*
202\
[O saving Victim, opening
wide](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/209-1.html) - *Martyr Dei*
209\
[O saving Victim, opening
wide](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/209-2.html) - *St.
Vincent* 209\
[Glory be to Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/335.html) -
*Caswall* 335\
[In the cross of Christ I
glory](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/336.html) - *Rathbun*
336\
[When I survey the wondrous
cross](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/337.html) - *Rockingham*
337\
[We sing the praise of him who
died](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/340.html) - *Breslau* 340\
[Beneath the cross of
Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/341.html) - *St.
Christopher* 341\
[O love how deep, how broad, how
high](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/344.html) - *Deus tuorum
militum* 344*\
*[At the name of
Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/356-1.html) - *King\'s
Weston* 356\
[At the name of
Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/356-2.html) - *Evelyns*
356\
[Lift up your heads](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/484.html) -
*Truro* 484\
[Lo what a cloud of
witnesses](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/569.html) - *St.
Flavian* 569
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
