PREFACE TO THE ORDINAL

\
IT is evident unto all men, diligently reading Holy Scripture and
ancient Authors, that from the Apostles\' time there have been these
Orders of Ministers in Christ\'s Church,\--Bishops, Priests, and
Deacons. Which Offices were evermore had in such reverend estimation,
that no man might presume to execute any of them, except he were first
called, tried, examined, and known to have such qualities as are
requisite for the same; and also by public Prayer, with Imposition of
Hands, were approved and admitted thereunto by lawful Authority. And
therefore, to the intent that these Orders may be continued, and
reverently used and esteemed in this Church, no man shall be accounted
or taken to be a lawful Bishop, Priest, or Deacon, in this Church, or
suffered to execute any of the said Functions, except he be called,
tried, examined, and admitted thereunto, according to the Form hereafter
following, or hath had Episcopal Consecration or Ordination.\
\
And none shall be admitted a Deacon, Priest, or Bishop, except he be of
the age which the Canon in that case provided may require.\
\
And the Bishop, knowing either by himself, or by sufficient testimony,
any Person to be a man of virtuous conversation, and without crime, and,
after examination and trial, finding him sufficiently instructed in the
Holy Scripture, and otherwise learned as the Canons require, may, at the
times appointed, or else, on urgent occasion, upon some other day, in
the face of the Church, admit him a Deacon, in such manner and form as
followeth.

Go to [1928 Book of Common Prayer](index.html)
