::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
 [1928 BCP](../index.html) + [BACK](Trinity25epiphany5.html) +
[NEXT](nextbeforeadvent.html)
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/Sacraments/MassStream.html)\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for the Trinity Season.*

***The Twenty-sixth Sunday after Trinity (6 Epiphany)***

***[Live Sunday
Masses](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/stream.html)\
***

[](../readings/Epiphany6.html)\
[Missal Propers](Missal/Epiphany6.html)
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\

The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

\

O GOD, whose blessed Son was manifested that he might destroy the works
of the devil, and make us the sons of God, and heirs of eternal life;
Grant us, we beseech thee, that, having this hope, we may purify
ourselves, even as he is pure; that, when he shall appear again with
power and great glory, we may be made like unto him in his eternal and
glorious kingdom; where with thee, O Father, and thee, O Holy Ghost, he
liveth and reigneth ever, one God, world without end. Amen.\

The Epistle. 1 St. John iii. 1.

BEHOLD, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we
should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not,
because it knew him not. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it
doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall
appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is. And every
man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure.
Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin is the
transgression of the law. And ye know that he was manifested to take
away our sins; and in him is no sin. Whosoever abideth in him sinneth
not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him. Little
children, let no man deceive you: he that doeth righteousness is
righteous, even as he is righteous. He that committeth sin is of the
devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the
Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the
devil.\

The Gospel. St. Matthew xxiv. 23.

THEN if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there;
believe it not. For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets,
and shall shew great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were
possible, they shall deceive the very elect. Behold, I have told you
before. Wherefore if they shall say unto you, Behold, he is in the
desert; go not forth: behold, he is in the secret chambers; believe it
not. For as the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto
the west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be. For wheresoever
the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered together. Immediately
after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the
moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and
the powers of the heavens shall be shaken: and then shall appear the
sign of the Son of man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the
earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of
heaven with power and great glory. And he shall send his angels with a
great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from
the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.

**Hymn Suggestions\
\
**[Let all mortal flesh keep
silence](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/197.html) - *Picardy*
197\
[Therefore we, before him
bending](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/199-200.html) - *Tantum
ergo* 200\
[Deck thyself, my soul, with
gladness](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/210.html) - *Schmuecke
Dich* 210\
[Hasten the time
appointed](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/257.html) -
*Lancashire* 257\
[O Zion, haste thy mission high
fulfilling](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/261.html) -
*Tidings* 261\
[Come, thou almighty
King](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/271.html) - *Moscow* 271\
[Let all the world in every corner
sing](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/290-1.html) - *High road*
290\
[Let all the world in every corner
sing](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/290-2.html) - *Universal
praise* 290\
[The Lord will come and not be
slow](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/312-1.html) - *York* 312\
[Thy kingdom come! on bended
knee](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/391.html) - *St.*
*Flavian* 391\
[Let saints on earth in concert
sing](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/397.html) - *Dundee* 397\
[O very God of very
God](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/442.html) - *Bangor* 442\
[O day of rest and
gladness](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/474.html) - *Woodbird*
474\
[Judge eternal, throned in
splendor](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/518.html) - *St.
Leonard* 518\
[O God of earth and
altar](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/521.html) - *King\'s
Lynn* 521\
[Lord Christ when thou first
cam\'st](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/522.html) - *Bohemian
brethren* 522\
[O what their joy and their glory must
be](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/589.html) - *O Quanta
Qualia* 589

 

\
ALLELUIA SUNDAY ADDITIONS\
[Alleluia, song of
gladness](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Epiphany/054.html) -
*Dulce carmen* 54\
[Alleluia, sing to
Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/347-1.html) - *Alleluia*
347\
[Alleluia, sing to
Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/347.html) - *Hyfrodol*
347\
[Ye watchers and ye holy
ones](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/599.html) - *Vigiles et
sancti* 599
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
