::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
 [1928 BCP](../index.html) + [BACK](Trinity24.html) +
[NEXT](Trinity26epiphany6.html) +
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/Sacraments/MassStream.html)[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/Sacraments/MassStream.html)

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for the Trinity Season.*

***The Twenty-fifth Sunday after Trinity (5 Epiphany)***

***[Live Sunday
Masses](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/stream.html)\
***

[](../readings/Epiphany5.html)\
[Missal Propers](Missal/Epiphany5.html)
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\
\
\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

O LORD, we beseech thee to keep thy Church and household continually in
thy true religion; that they who do lean only upon the hope of thy
heavenly grace may evermore be defended by thy mighty power; through
Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.\

The Epistle. Colossians iii. 12.

PUT on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, a heart of
compassion, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering;
forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a
quarrel against any: even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. And
above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness.
And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are
called in one body; and be ye thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in
you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms
and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the
Lord. And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the
Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.\

The Gospel. St. Matthew xiii. 24.

THE kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his
field: but while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the
wheat, and went his way. But when the blade was sprung up, and brought
forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. So the servants of the
householder came and said unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in
thy field? from whence then hath it tares? He said unto them, An enemy
hath done this. The servants said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go
and gather them up? But he said, Nay; lest while ye gather up the tares,
ye root up also the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the
harvest: and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye
together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them: but
gather the wheat into my barn.

 

 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Hymn Suggestions**\
**\
**[Humbly I adore
thee](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/204.html) - *Adoro Devote*
204\
[Deck thyself with
gladness](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/210.html) - *Schmucke
dich* 210\
[Joyful, joyful, we adore
thee](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/281.html) - *Alleluia*
281\
[Joyful, joyful, we adore
thee](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/769.html) - *Hymn to Joy*
769\
[Praise to the living
God](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/286.html) - *Leoni* 286\
[The Lord will come and not be
slow](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/312-1.html) - *York* 312\
[Lord of all
hopefulness](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/363.html) - *Slane*
363\
[O Christ, the Word
incarnate](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/402.html) - *Munich*
402\
[My God, accept my heart this
day](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/404.html) - *Song* 67 404\
[Commit thou all that grieves
thee](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/446.html) - *Passion
Chorale* 446\
[My faith looks up to
thee](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/449.html) - *Olivet* 449\
[Love divine, love
excelling](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/479.html) -
*Hyfrydol* 479\
[Love divine, love
excelling](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/479-2.html) - *Love
divine* 479\
[God the Omnipotent](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/523.html) -
*Russia* 523\
[O what their joy and their glory must
be](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/589.html) - *O Quanta
Qualia* 589\
\
ALLELUIA SUNDAY ADDITIONS\
[Alleluia, song of
gladness](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/Epiphany/054.html) -
*Dulce carmen* 54\
[Alleluia, sing to
Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/347.html) - *Alleluia*
347\
[Alleluia, sing to
Jesus](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/347-1.html) - *Hyfrodol*
347\
[Ye watchers and ye holy
ones](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/599.html) - *Vigiles et
sancti* 599

 

#  
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
