::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
 [1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) +
[BACK](mondaybfreaster.html) + [NEXT](wednesdaybfreaster.html)

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

\+ [Mass
Videos](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/Sacraments/MassStream.html)\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Passiontide.*

***Tuesday before Easter.***

***[Live Sunday
Masses](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/stream.html)***

\
[Missal Propers](Missal/HolyWeekTuesday.html)
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\
\
\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

O LORD God, whose blessed Son, our Saviour, gave his back to the smiters
and hid not his face from shame; Grant us grace to take joyfully the
sufferings of the present time, in full assurance of the glory that
shall be revealed; through the same thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord.
Amen.\

For the Epistle. Isaiah 1. 5.

THE Lord GOD hath opened mine ear, and I was not rebellious, neither
turned away back. I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them
that plucked off the hair: I hid not my face from shame and spitting.
For the Lord GOD will help me; therefore shall I not be confounded:
therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not
be ashamed. He is near that justifieth me; who will contend with me? let
us stand together: who is mine adversary? let him come near to me.
Behold, the Lord GOD will help me; who is he that shall condemn me? lo,
they all shall wax old as a garment; the moth shall eat them up. Who is
among you that feareth the LORD, that obeyeth the voice of his servant,
that walketh in darkness, and hath no light? let him trust in the name
of the LORD, and stay upon his God. Behold, all ye that kindle a fire,
that compass yourselves about with sparks: walk in the light of your
fire, and in the sparks that ye have kindled. This shall ye have of mine
hand; ye shall lie down in sorrow.\

The Gospel. St. Mark xv. 1.

AND straightway in the morning the chief priests held a consultation
with the elders and scribes and the whole council, and bound Jesus, and
carried him away, and delivered him to Pilate. And Pilate asked him, Art
thou the King of the Jews? And he answering said unto him, Thou sayest
it. And the chief priests accused him of many things: but he answered
nothing. And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerest thou nothing?
behold how many things they witness against thee. But Jesus yet answered
nothing; so that Pilate marvelled. Now at that feast he released unto
them one prisoner, whomsoever they desired. And there was one named
Barabbas, which lay bound with them that had made insurrection with him,
who had committed murder in the insurrection. And the multitude crying
aloud began to desire him to do as he had ever done unto them. But
Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the King
of the Jews? For he knew that the chief priests had delivered him for
envy. But the chief priests moved the people, that he should rather
release Barabbas unto them. And Pilate answered and said again unto
them, What will ye then that I shall do unto him whom ye call the King
of the Jews? And they cried out again, Crucify him. Then Pilate said
unto them, Why, what evil hath he done? And they cried out the more
exceedingly, Crucify him. And so Pilate, willing to content the people,
released Barabbas unto them, and delivered Jesus, when he had scourged
him, to be crucified. And the soldiers led him away into the hall,
called Praetorium; and they call together the whole band. And they
clothed him with purple, and platted a crown of thorns, and put it about
his head, and began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews! And they
smote him on the head with a reed, and did spit upon him, and bowing
their knees worshipped him. And when they had mocked him, they took off
the purple from him, and put his own clothes on him, and led him out to
crucify him. And they compel one Simon a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming
out of the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his
cross. And they bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, being
interpreted, The place of a skull. And they gave him to drink wine
mingled with myrrh: but he received it not. And when they had crucified
him, they parted his garments, casting lots upon them, what every man
should take. And it was the third hour, and they crucified him. And the
superscription of his accusation was written over, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
And with him they crucify two thieves; the one on his right hand, and
the other on his left. And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, And
he was numbered with the transgressors. And they that passed by railed
on him, wagging their heads, and saying, Ah, thou that destroyest the
temple, and buildest it in three days, save thyself, and come down from
the cross. Likewise also the chief priests mocking said among themselves
with the scribes, He saved others; himself he cannot save. Let Christ
the King of Israel descend now from the cross, that we may see and
believe. And they that were crucified with him reviled him. And when the
sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the whole land until the
ninth hour. And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying,
Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my
God, why hast thou forsaken me? And some of them that stood by, when
they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias. And one ran and filled a
spunge full of vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink,
saying, Let alone; let us see whether Elias will come to take him down.
And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost. And the veil
of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom. And when the
centurion, which stood over against him, saw that he so cried out, and
gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God.
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
