::: {#container}
::: {#header}
# Â 
:::

::: {#mainContent}
[1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) +
[BACK](tuesdaybfreaster.html) + [NEXT](maundythursday.html)

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

\+ [Mass
Videos](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/Sacraments/MassStream.html)\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Passiontide.*

***Wednesday before Easter.***

***[Live Sunday
Masses](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/stream.html)***\
[](../readings/HolyWeek.html#anchor3150667)\
[Missal Propers](Missal/HolyWeekWednesday.html)
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\
\
\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

ASSIST us mercifully with thy help, O Lord God of our salvation; that we
may enter with joy upon the meditation of those mighty acts, whereby
thou hast given unto us life and immortality; through Jesus Christ our
Lord. Amen.\

The Epistle. Hebrews ix. 16.

WHERE a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the
testator. For a testament is of force after men are dead: otherwise it
is of no strength at all while the testator liveth. Whereupon neither
the first testament was dedicated without blood. For when Moses had
spoken every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the
blood of calves and of goats, with water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop,
and sprinkled both the book and all the people, saying, This is the
blood of the testament which God hath enjoined unto you. Moreover, he
sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the
ministry. And almost all things are by the law purged with blood; and
without shedding of blood is no remission. It was therefore necessary
that the patterns of things in the heavens should be purified with
these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than
these. For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands,
which are the figures of the true; but into heaven itself, now to appear
in the presence of God for us: nor yet that he should offer himself
often, as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with
blood of others; for then must he often have suffered since the
foundation of the world: but now once in the end of the world hath he
appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And as it is
appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment: so Christ
was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for
him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.\

The Gospel. St. Luke xxii. 1.

NOW the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the
Passover. And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill
him; for they feared the people. Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed
Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve. And he went his way, and
communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him
unto them. And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money. And he
promised, and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence
of the multitude. Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the
passover must be killed. And he sent Peter and John, saying, Go and
prepare us the passover, that we may eat. And they said unto him, Where
wilt thou that we prepare? And he said unto them, Behold, when ye are
entered into the city, there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of
water; follow him into the house where he entereth in. And ye shall say
unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith unto thee, Where is the
guest-chamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples? And he
shall shew you a large upper room furnished: there make ready. And they
went, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the
passover. And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve
apostles with him. And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to
eat this passover with you before I suffer: for I say unto you, I will
not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this, and divide it
among yourselves: for I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of
the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come. And he took bread, and
gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body
which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me. Likewise also the
cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood,
which is shed for you. But, behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is
with me on the table. And truly the Son of man goeth, as it was
determined: but woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed! And they began
to enquire among themselves, which of them it was that should do this
thing. And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be
accounted the greatest. And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles
exercise lordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them
are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest
among you, let him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that
doth serve. For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that
serveth? is not he that sitteth at meat? but I am among you as he that
serveth.. Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations.
And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointed unto me;
that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones,
judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon,
behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat:
but I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not; and when thou art
converted, strengthen thy brethren. And he said unto him, Lord, I am
ready to go with thee, both into prison, and to death. And he said, I
tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, before that thou
shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me. And he said unto them, When I
sent you without purse, and scrip, and shoes, lacked ye any thing? And
they said, Nothing. Then said he unto them, But now, he that hath a
purse, let him take it, and likewise his scrip: and he that hath no
sword, let him sell his garment, and buy one. For I say unto you, that
this that is written must yet be accomplished in me, And he was reckoned
among the transgressors: for the things concerning me have an end. And
they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said unto them, It
is enough. And he came out, and went, as he was wont, to the mount of
Olives; and his disciples also followed him. And when he was at the
place, he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation. And he
was withdrawn from them about a stone\'s cast, and kneeled down, and
prayed, saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me:
nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done. And there appeared an
angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in an agony he
prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood
falling down to the ground. And when he rose up from prayer, and was
come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow, and said unto
them, Why sleep ye? rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. And
while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was called Judas,
one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss
him. But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man with
a kiss? When they which were about him saw what would follow, they said
unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword? And one of them smote the
servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. And Jesus
answered and said, Suffer ye thus far. And he touched his ear, and
healed him. Then Jesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of the
temple, and the elders, which were come to him, Be ye come out, as
against a thief, with swords and staves? When I was daily with you in
the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against me: but this is your
hour, and the power of darkness. Then took they him, and led him, and
brought him into the high priest\'s house. And Peter followed afar off.
And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and were set
down together, Peter sat down among them. But a certain maid beheld him
as he sat by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and said, This man
was also with him. And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not. And
after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou art also of them.
And Peter said, Man, I am not. And about the space of one hour after
another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also was
with him: for he is a Galilaean. And Peter said, Man, I know not what
thou sayest. And immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew. And the
Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the
Lord, how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me
thrice. And Peter went out, and wept bitterly. And the men that held
Jesus mocked him, and smote him. And when they had blindfolded him, they
struck him on the face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that
smote thee? And many other things blasphemously spake they against him.
And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the chief
priests and the scribes came together, and led him into their council,
saying, Art thou the Christ? tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell
you, ye will not believe: and if I also ask you, ye will not answer me,
nor let me go. Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of
the power of God. Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And
he said unto them, Ye say that I am. And they said, What need we any
further witness? for we ourselves have heard of his own mouth.
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
