::: {#container}
::: {#header}
#  
:::

::: {#mainContent}
** [1928 Book of Common Prayer](../index.html) +
[BACK](Ascensionsundayafter.html) + [NEXT](whitsunmonday.html)**

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

\

*Collects, Epistles, and Gospels\
for Ascensiontide - Whitsuntide*

*\
**Pentecost, commonly called Whitsunday.***

***[Live Sunday
Masses](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/Sedona/stream.html)***

 

[Missal Propers](Missal/Whitsunday.html)
[](http://www.episcopalnet.org/DBS/DOR.html#anchor1129459)\
\
\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

O GOD, who as at this time didst teach the hearts of thy faithful
people, by sending to them the light of thy Holy Spirit; Grant us by the
same Spirit to have a right judgment in all things, and evermore to
rejoice in his holy comfort; through the merits of Christ Jesus our
Saviour, who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the same
Spirit, one God, world without end. Amen.

*¶ This Collect is to be said daily throughout Whitsun Week.*

For the Epistle. Acts ii. 1.

WHEN the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord
in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a
rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were
sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire,
and it sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy
Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them
utterance. And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out of
every nation under heaven. Now when this was noised abroad, the
multitude came together, and were confounded, because that every man
heard them speak in his own language. And they were all amazed and
marvelled, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these which speak
Galilaeans? And how hear we every man in our own tongue, wherein we were
born? Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in
Mesopotamia, and in Judaea, and Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia,
Phrygia, and Pamphylia, in Egypt, and in the parts of Libya about
Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, Jews and proselytes, Cretes and Arabians,
we do hear them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God.\

The Gospel. St. John xiv. 15.

JESUS said unto his disciples, If ye love me, keep my commandments. And
I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he
may abide with you for ever; even the Spirit of truth; whom the world
cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye
know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. I will not
leave you comfortless: I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the
world seeth me no more; but ye see me: because I live, ye shall live
also. At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me,
and I in you. He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is
that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I
will love him, and will manifest myself to him. Judas saith unto him,
not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us,
and not unto the world? Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love
me, he will keep my words; and my Father will love him, and we will come
unto him, and make our abode with him. He that loveth me not keepeth not
my sayings: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father\'s
which sent me. These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present
with you. But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father
will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all
things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. Peace I
leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give
I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Ye
have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again unto you. If
ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father: for
my Father is greater than I. And now I have told you before it come to
pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye might believe. Hereafter I will
not talk much with you: for the prince of this world cometh, and hath
nothing in me. But that the world may know that I love the Father; and
as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do.

*\
¶ If in any Church the Holy Communion be twice celebrated on Whitsunday,
the following Collect, Epistle, and Gospel may be used at the first
Communion.*

\
The Collect.

![](http://stats.superstats.com/b/ss/DAVIDMCMANNES/1){border="0"}

ALMIGHTY and most merciful God, grant, we beseech thee, that by the
indwelling of thy Holy Spirit, we may be enlightened and strengthened
for thy service; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth
with thee in the unity of the same Spirit ever, one God, world without
end. Amen.\

The Epistle. 1 Corinthians xii. 4.

NOW there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. And there are
differences of administrations, but the same Lord. And there are
diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in
all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit
withal. For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another
the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; to another faith by the same
Spirit; to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit; to another
the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to another discerning of
spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another the
interpretation of tongues: but all these worketh that one and the
selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will. For as the
body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one
body, being many, are one body: so also is Christ. For by one Spirit are
we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether
we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit. For
the body is not one member, but many.\

The Gospel. St. Luke xi. 9.

JESUS said to his disciples, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and
ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one
that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that
knocketh it shall be opened. If a son shall ask bread of any of you that
is a father, will he give him a stone? or if he ask a fish, will he for
a fish give him a serpent? or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him
a scorpion? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto
your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy
Spirit to them that ask him?

 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Hymn Suggestions**\
**\
**[Hail thee. festival
day](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/107.html) - *Salve Festa
Dies* 107\
[O come , Creator
Spirit](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/108-1.html)*(office)* -
*Veni Creator* 108\
[O come , Creator
Spirit](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/108-2.html) - *Grace
Church* 108\
[Come, thou Holy
Spirit](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/109-1.html)
***(Sequence)*** - *The Golden Sequence* 109\
[Come, thou Holy
Spirit](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/109-2.html) - *Veni
sancte spiritus* 109\
[Hail thee! Spirit Lord
eternal](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/110.html) - *Cowley*
110\
[Spirit of mercy, truth, and
love](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/111.html) - *Melcomb* 111\
[Come. Holy Ghost, our souls
inspire](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/217-1.html) - *Veni
Creator* 217\
[Come, Holy Ghost, our souls
inspire](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/217-2.html) - *Come
Holy Ghost* 217\
[O worship the King, all glorious
above](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/288.html) - *Hanover*
288\
[Come, Holy Spirit, heavenly
Dove](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/369.html) - *St. Agnes*
369\
[Creator Spirit, by whose
aid](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/371.html) - *Attwood* 371\
[Breathe on me, Breath of
God](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/375-1.html) - *Swabia* 375\
[Breathe on me, Breath of
God](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/375-2.html) - *Nova Vita*
375\
[Come Down, O Love
divine](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/376.html) - *Down
Ampney* 376\
[Glorious things of thee are
spoken](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/385.html) - *Austria*
385\
[As pants the hart](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/450.html)
(Pentecost vigil procession to font) - *Martyrdom* 450\
[O love that casts out
fear](http://www.episcopalnet.org/CHymnal/ACH/457.html) - *Moseley* 457
:::

::: {#footer}
[***episcopalnet.org\
***+ Traditional Episcopalianism in the 21st Century +\
That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ]{.style2}\
:::
:::
